blog:Add blog post on github copilot in espressif-ide (#394)
espressif/developer-portal: content/blog/2025/02/github-copilot-in-espressif-ide/index.md

{{< figure default=true src="assets/copilot-with-espressif-ide.webp" >}}

### Seamless Integration with Espressif-IDE

Once you install Copilot4Eclipse in Espressif-IDE, you’ll see the Copilot menu, where you can enable GitHub Copilot suggestions. We tested Copilot4Eclipse with Espressif-IDE on ESP-IDF projects, and it worked flawlessly!

{{< figure default=true src="assets/copilot-menu.webp" >}}

### GitHub Copilot Chat

GitHub Copilot Chat is an AI-powered coding assistant that provides real-time guidance directly within your IDE. It allows developers to choose a file, ask questions, get code explanations, debug errors, and generate code snippets—all through an interactive chat interface.

{{< figure default=true src="assets/copilot-chat.webp" >}}

### Supports Various Languages

Whether you're coding in C or C++, GitHub Copilot’s AI-driven suggestions can help you write better code, faster.

{{< figure default=true src="assets/preferences.webp" >}}

## Getting Started with Copilot4Eclipse

> - **Install the [Copilot4Eclipse](https://www.genuitec.com/products/copilot4eclipse/docs/installation) Plugin** - Download and install the Copilot4Eclipse extension from the [Eclipse Marketplace](https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/copilot4eclipse).

Reviewer: I suggest adding a paragraph before the bullet points.

`To get started with Copilot4Eclipse you will need to:`

- **Authenticate with GitHub** - Sign in with your GitHub Copilot subscription to activate AI-powered assistance.
- **Start Coding with AI Support** - As you write code, Copilot4Eclipse provides intelligent suggestions, making coding easier and more productive.

{{< figure default=true src="assets/copilot-marketplace.webp" >}}

> ## Final Thoughts

Reviewer: Could you finish with a conclusion?
I also suggest inverting:

```
If you are working with the ESP-IDF using Espresif-IDE, this tool can significantly speed up your workflow, reducing boilerplate and improving code quality.
```

And maybe you can add:
 
```
If you are working with the ESP-IDF using the Espressif-IDE or considering the Espressif-IDE for your development environment, this tool can significantly help...
```

---
title: "GitHub Copilot Now in Espressif-IDE with Copilot4Eclipse"
date: 2025-02-05
showAuthor: false
disableComments: false
tags: ["Espressif-IDE", "GitHub Copilot", "IDE","AI","ESP-IDF"]
authors:
- "kondal-kolipaka"
---

> We all love [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) as a powerful AI-powered coding assistant that enhances productivity. However, until now, it has been officially available only for VS Code and a few other editors. But here’s some good news for Eclipse users! We have tried the [Copilot4Eclipse](https://www.genuitec.com/products/copilot4eclipse/) plugin with the [Espressif-IDE C/C++ Editor](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/espressif-ide/en/latest/additionalfeatures/lspeditor.html#lsp-c-c-editor), and it works amazingly well, helping to write code faster and fix bugs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We all love [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) as a powerful AI-powered coding assistant that enhances productivity. However, until now, it has been officially available only for VS Code and a few other editors. But here’s some good news for Eclipse users! We have tried the [Copilot4Eclipse](https://www.genuitec.com/products/copilot4eclipse/) plugin with the [Espressif-IDE LSP C/C++ Editor](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/espressif-ide/en/latest/additionalfeatures/lspeditor.html#lsp-c-c-editor), and it works amazingly well, helping to write code faster and fix bugs.
```

## Introducing Copilot4Eclipse

If you've been waiting for GitHub Copilot support in Eclipse, look no further than [Copilot4Eclipse](https://www.genuitec.com/products/copilot4eclipse/) — a fantastic plugin that brings Copilot's AI-assisted code generation to the Eclipse IDE. While the experience may not be identical to VS Code, Copilot4Eclipse offers similar features, making AI-assisted development possible within Eclipse.

## How Copilot4Eclipse Enhances Development

### AI-Powered Code Suggestions

> Copilot4Eclipse generates entire functions, suggests code completions, and refactors snippets, streamlining development and boosting efficiency. It assists with boilerplate code, ESP32 API calls, and even offers intelligent improvements to your implementation—helping you write better code, faster.

Reviewer 2: Suggest mentioning the general effects first (streamlines development and boosts efficiency) and then diving into specifics (by generating entire functions, suggesting code completions, and refactoring snippets.). In this way, this sentence is easier to read and parse.

```suggestion
Copilot4Eclipse streamlines development and boosts efficiency by generating entire functions, suggesting code completions, and refactoring snippets. It assists with boilerplate code, ESP32 API calls, and even offers intelligent improvements to your implementation—helping you write better code, faster.
```

{{< figure default=true src="assets/copilot-with-espressif-ide.webp" >}}

### Seamless Integration with Espressif-IDE

Once you install Copilot4Eclipse in Espressif-IDE, you’ll see the Copilot menu, where you can enable GitHub Copilot suggestions. We tested Copilot4Eclipse with Espressif-IDE on ESP-IDF projects, and it worked flawlessly!

{{< figure default=true src="assets/copilot-menu.webp" >}}

### GitHub Copilot Chat

GitHub Copilot Chat is an AI-powered coding assistant that provides real-time guidance directly within your IDE. It allows developers to choose a file, ask questions, get code explanations, debug errors, and generate code snippets—all through an interactive chat interface.

{{< figure default=true src="assets/copilot-chat.webp" >}}

> ### Supports Various Languages

Reviewer 2: The previous headings are noun phrases, suggest keeping this trend here as well.

```suggestion
### Support for Various Languages
```

Reviewer 2: @kolipakakondal  Thank you for contributing the article! I have a few nitpicks, otherwise it looks good.

Once, you implement all the updates, please update the article's release date.

Whether you're coding in C or C++, GitHub Copilot’s AI-driven suggestions can help you write better code, faster.

{{< figure default=true src="assets/preferences.webp" >}}

> ## Getting Started with Copilot4Eclipse
> 
> To get started with Copilot4Eclipse you will need to:
> - **Install the [Copilot4Eclipse](https://www.genuitec.com/products/copilot4eclipse/docs/installation) Plugin** - Download and install the Copilot4Eclipse extension from the [Eclipse Marketplace](https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/copilot4eclipse).
> - **Authenticate with GitHub** - Sign in with your GitHub Copilot subscription to activate AI-powered assistance.
> - **Start Coding with AI Support** - As you write code, Copilot4Eclipse provides intelligent suggestions, making coding easier and more productive.
> 
> {{< figure default=true src="assets/copilot-marketplace.webp" >}}

Reviewer 2: Questions:

- How about moving the instructions to install Copilot4Eclipse before the section `How Copilot4Eclipse Enhances Development`?
  - I believe most of the developers these days should at least have an idea about what GitHub Copilot does. With that in mind, I would assume that many of them would already be willing to try and install it from the beginning without the necessity to go through its features first.
- Are there any limitations on Espressif-IDE versions with which Copilot4Eclipse can be used?

Apart from that, suggest the following updates:

- Move the picture for Copilot4Eclipse Plugin to step 1 where it is relevant
- Thi is a procedure, so the steps should be numbered
- `Getting Started with C` has a strong documentation flavor, suggest something lighter like `how to start using ...`

```suggestion
## How to start using Copilot4Eclipse

To get started with Copilot4Eclipse, you will need to:

1. **Install the [Copilot4Eclipse](https://www.genuitec.com/products/copilot4eclipse/docs/installation) Plugin** - Download and install the Copilot4Eclipse extension from the [Eclipse Marketplace](https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/copilot4eclipse).
  {{< figure default=true src="assets/copilot-marketplace.webp" >}}
2. **Authenticate with GitHub** - Sign in with your GitHub Copilot subscription to activate AI-powered assistance.
3. **Start Coding with AI Support** - As you write code, Copilot4Eclipse provides intelligent suggestions, making coding easier and more productive.
```

- Move installation instructions to the beginning of the article
